hello everyone my name is Alex I'm one
of the expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language and welcome to your task of the
week and it's a very special task of the
week because you voted for this writing
task 2 in this session we're going to
analyze the winning task 2 topic I'll
help you activate or learn some new
vocabulary we'll write an
out-of-this-world
essay and at the end I'm going to share
with you an opportunity to get some
writing feedback here it E - so stay
tuned for that now with every writing
task - the first thing to do is read the
question carefully here are the
instructions that we always start with
you should spend about 40 minutes on
this task write about the following
topic give reasons include examples
write at least 250 words and here is the
winning topic drumroll let's read it
some governments spend a lot of money on
exploring space some feel that this
investment is justified it's a good idea
or it's worth it while others think that
money should be spent on public services
like health care and education public
services things that benefit the
citizens of that country or fulfill
their basic needs and our question
disgusts both these views and give your
opinion so we've got three things to do
here discuss both sides plus give our
own opinion I won't go into too much
detail about how to plan and structure
this essay but if you want extra help
check us out at e tu language comm for a
hundred percent online preparation we've
got a huge IELTS course there plus daily
or twice daily live group classes you
can submit your work for feedback or
take a one-on-one tutorial with the
teacher like me now back to our space
topic let's activate our vocabulary when
you voted for this topic on Facebook and
Instagram I imagine it's probably
because you don't feel confident with
space related vocab or space related
issues so I'm going to help you by
showing you some vocab
from my essay here is a really small
list of useful words I'm gonna go
through each one and then give you a
quick quiz to see if you remember first
one is to squander this is to waste
usually money for example my friend
squandered his money at the casino last
week basically flushed it down the
toilet by gambling squander to mine
these guys here are miners they are in
ermine and they are mining what are they
mining for probably coal or gold or
diamonds to mine another word from our
essay today is literacy literacy is the
ability to read and write so if a
country has a really good education
system do you think its literacy rate is
high or low it would be higher of course
here's probably a familiar word rocket
now examiners love to see topic-specific
vocabulary in writing so when you're
discussing space it's an opportunity to
bring in some interesting space vocab
that you know vaccine this is related to
the public services part of the question
today you get a vaccine to protect you
from diseases it's usually in an
injection like in this picture another
space word this guy or this girl is an
astronaut and uninhabitable it's
impossible to live here this place is
uninhabitable
maybe it's the center of Australia or
perhaps Jupiter or Venus these places
are uninhabitable uninhabitable were
there any new words for you there
hopefully you've picked up some new
vocabulary let's still quick quiz and
see how much you remember vocabulary
quiz which word or phrase from the
previous page means spaceship ability to
read and write waste a substance to
provide immunity unsuitable to live in
digging the earth
for coal gold minerals etc here's 30
seconds
type your answers in the comments
you're still struggling here's a hint
the first letter of each word in 30 more
seconds
you
you're feeling confident do you think
you got six out of six correct let's
check your answers should be rocket
literacy squander vaccine uninhabitable
and mine so remember as I said try to
get in some of these topics specific
words like rocket and astronaut and in
general work on your vocabulary everyday
come along to our live classes we love
doing quizzes like this back to our
essay and it's time now to plan remember
we've got three things to think about
the first view the second view and my
own view let's start with the first one
that space exploration is justified that
the money is worth it I'd love to know
your own ideas here so pop them in the
comments below what are some arguments
for investing in space research the
first thing that I asked myself here is
why why is space research a good thing
and here are a few ideas one space
research can have many knock-on effects
for ordinary people for instance did you
know that pacemakers and sunglasses came
from Space Research another reason is
that this could help to protect us from
asteroid collisions sounds a little bit
like science fiction but apparently it's
true and third one we might find a new
planet to mine or perhaps to colonize
we're already looking at somewhere like
Mars for people to move to what about
the second point money should be spent
on public services instead so why do
some people think that this is a waste
of money that the money should go on
public services well this is a pretty
easy one some people are starving and
dying of treatable diseases around the
world they need this money another
reason why the money should be spent on
public services some say space
exploration is not useful any longer
we've already been to the moon we've got
satellites everywhere we've sent Rover
to Mars what more do we need to know and
another one government money should be
spent on citizens first
many people believe that the citizens
needs should come before throwing money
away into space or squandering money on
space exploration so this brings us to
my view or rather your view you could be
100% on this side 100% on this side and
I know what your next question is can I
be on both sides and this is a great
question you can't actually be on both
sides you can't 100% argue for something
and 100% argue against something of
course you can have a nuanced opinion
which is in the middle but I'm going to
show you something on the criteria just
to keep in mind as you plan and write
your essay so everything comes down to
this marking criteria of course I'm
going to zoom in off the page here down
two and three and the middle dot point
says does not express a clear position
position is basically your opinion so if
an examiner gets to the end of your
essay and still doesn't clearly
understand what you think you're in
danger of getting a ban three for task
response so at all costs you need to
avoid this to be up here band 7 middle
dot point presents a clear position
throughout the response this is of
course what we need and I'm going to
show you how to make sure you're giving
a clear position throughout the response
not just at the end so step three let's
write I haven't shown you my plan but as
I write my essay you'll be able to
figure it out we start with the
introduction I always follow the e2
structure with three sentences here we
go in the last century billions of
dollars have been spent on the
exploration of the universe although
some support this investment others feel
that this money is squandered and should
instead be spent tackling Earth's many
problems such as public health and
education in this essay I will examine
both views and explain what I agree that
government should cease funding space
programs notice this part here this is
my opinion in this type of essay and in
the real world and this type of question
you would probably give your opinion at
the end but I want to avoid getting a
band six or five or four or three and
task response I want to show the
examiner clear position throughout so I
put my opinion in the introduction and I
would advise you to do the same
on to body 1 now and we're looking at
the first view those who advocate the
state funded research argue that the
future of humankind may depend on such a
discovery if we found an earth-like
planet nearby for instance they claim
that our species could mine its
resources or even colonize and
potentially migrate there once our own
planet becomes uninhabitable indeed
projects are already underway
investigating the feasibility of life on
Mars among other places thus to these
supporters the government's money is
well spent on exploring outer space as
it could ultimately save us
notice the use of those and they these
supporters all of that indicates that
this is not my view now on to body 2 I'd
like to give you a little challenge here
if you already an e-2 subscriber you're
probably familiar with this type of
activity from our live classes for those
of you who are not yet a member let me
explain it I've got my body to paragraph
here but I've taken out some of the
words let me read through it see if you
can guess what's missing and then I'll
show you the possible options body to
others however myself included did not
support this ongoing indeed in the last
few decades countries like the USA have
spent over a hundred billion dollars
sending astronauts rovers and out into
the galaxy and the results have been
negligible if this money had been spent
instead on improving something or
sanitation in a third world or on
researching and treatments for deadly
diseases our lives would be much better
than they currently are given that
private businesses such as Tesla and
virgin are now pouring money space
research government's no longer need to
waste their money on this fruitless
pursuit here are your options
I'll give you 45 seconds to fill in the
gaps have a go challenge yourself
and here are the answers
how did you go 5 out of 5 this brings us
now to the conclusion in conclusion
humanity's thirst for knowledge is
unquenchable it is time however for
private corporations to invest and for
governments to take responsibility for
their real duty here on earth so
remember the importance of that clear
position throughout you can see ivory
stated what i believed in the conclusion
here the final step would be to edit so
let me just show you the full sample
here it is grab a screenshot or pause
and write it out or read it aloud into
your phone and listen to it later
i promised you earlier an opportunity
regarding IELTS writing feedback if
you're already an e2 language subscriber
you'll know that you can get your work
assessed by one of our IELTS experts or
you can take a one-on-one tutorial to go
through your writing together with your
teacher but for the next few weeks we're
inviting everybody anyone out there to
submit your writing via the link below
and i'm gonna choose three essays those
three essays will be part of our live
writing feedback class on ear to
language comm this is not on youtube but
it will be open to all eetu subscribers
even free subscribers so you just need
to pop over to e to language comm and
subscribe in the class I'll go through
each of the three essays I've selected
and explain the strengths and weaknesses
and show you what it takes to reach band
7 and above if your writing is chosen
lucky you but even if I don't select
your essay I promise you will still
benefit from the class plus it'll be
live on each of language comm so you can
ask me any question that you like so let
me recap submit your essay via the link
below sign up as a free member ID to
language comm and then join our free
live
on April the 12th one more thing here is
your topic that you're going to write
about advertising has become an
unavoidable part of everyone's lives
some people say that advertising is a
positive part of our lives while others
say it's a negative one discuss both
views and include your own opinion be
sure to submit your work before April
the 5th and remember to subscribe and
come along to our live class on April
the 12th thanks for watching and I'll
see you next time on our eetu IELTS task
of the week I
[Music]